Reflections -
Lecture 7: Libraries and Modular Code
In this lecture, it was shown how libraries help to organise the program and how to import functions from other files, which helps with the organisation. In my project, I have used this to create separate files rather than writing a large amount of code in one file. For example, I created a file called student.csv which has student names, IDs, and scores. In another file called filehandler.py, I used the function "import csv" which reads the data in the student.csv file and implements it into this new file. It is quite useful having a separate file for student data, as when I added a few more students, it was easy to locate, and keeps the neat format.
Something else I also used from this lecture was importing functions from other files. For example, I used the function "from filehandler import read_students, write_report", which allows my main.py file to access the functions in filehandler.py. This is useful because I have already defined this functions within the filehandler.py file, so I do not need to rewrite the code, and saves space within the main.py file. 
I have also applied error handling which includes the "try" and "except" functions, which were shown under "Command Line Arguments". Within main.py on line 10 and 23, it helps prevent crashing as the code within 'try' runs normally and if there are any errors, Python moves to the 'except' part of the code which will handle the problem. Although my code isn't exactly the same as the example, it still uses the error handling concept.
Lecture 8: Testing and File I/O
This lecture shows the use of the function "assert" to test functions. It is used to automatically verify that functions are working correctly, instead of manually doing so. I have used this shown in test_grades.py where I have written "def test_average(): assert calculated_average([60, 70, 80, 90]) == 75" which checks that the average of those numbers does in fact equal to 75, and if it does it will return with PASSED. If it comes back that it has not passed, you can clearly see what part failed, and can go to the code and fix it. I also used "assert" for letter grade assignment and student ID validation.
I have also shown that I used the File I/O feature, which I implemented using the student.csv file. This is demonstrated as my program reads data from this file and processes it to calculate student overall average scores and their grades. As well as this, the program generates the information into the report.txt file, so you are able to clearly see a table of the IDs, names, average score, and grades, this data is not deleted, so you are able to view it if the program is not running, which can be quite useful.
From Workshop 8, I used regex to validate student IDs, which allow the program to check if input follows a specific format. In the grade.py file, I called the function "validate_student_id()" which uses regex to ensure that each student ID follows to correct format. For example, I accidentally used an 'o' instead of '0' for student 18, and it didn't show on the report.txt file, so where the format was incorrect it will dismiss the students information. This is helpful as where I hadn't noticed I wrote the ID incorrect, the program automatically checks for mistakes.
Another statement that I have used used id "if __name__ == "__main__":" what ensures the program only runs the file is ran directly, rather than when it is imported as a module. 
In addition, I have used the "lambda" function which is called an anonymous function, and it allows us replace the "get_name" function and mimic its singular functionality in line.
Lecture 9: Objected Oriented Programming
I implemented a Student class in the student.py file, which each student object stores the students's ID, name, and grades, and includes methods that perform the actions related to that student. For example, I created a class which is "class Student: def __init__(self,student_id, name, grades)" which shows I have related my project to the class work, and I also created methods like; "average()" to calculate the student's average score, "letter_garde()" to assign the correct letter grade to the students, and "display()" to format the student information for output. By using class, it allows data and related information to be paired together, which makes the program easier to understand.
From this lecture, I have also used inheritance in student.py which allows properties like the student's name to be defined in the parent class and reused in the child class. For example, the Student class inherits the name attribute from the Person class. This is useful because it allows the program to be more organised as it is reusing code.
Extra things included:
Dictionaries - 
I used to analyse grade distribution, which stores each letter grade as a key and the number of students which have that grade as a value, and as the program runs through each student, the dictionary updates the count for each grade. This is useful as it makes it efficient to track and summarise the distribution of grades across the class.
Histogram - 
Another extra detail I included was using a histogram for the grade distribution, what this did was included stars next to the letter grade, so you can visually see how many people recieved the same grade as well as the number of people. I like this feature as it is quite simple but makes my program a bit different.